Key	Title	Text
0	The Adventurers' Saga As Chronicled by Jordan A'Dorad	"As the most prominent clan leader in the region of Chedian, Jarl Sven Forkbeard of Thjorgard has always had an interest in preserving its history.  I am known for my keen eye for adventure, and my tongue for tales, so the Jarl comissioned me to record the adventures of the group that may well become known as the Saviors of Chedian.  Let me make clear, however, that the choice of what adventures to chronicle was mine and not his.  Jarl Sven has always been my benefactor, and I'd not wish to invoke his wrath should these adventures place a poor light on him or his leadership.  I sincerely hope, dear reader that these tales enlighten as well as entertain."
473	Prologue:  The Isle of Ashes	"They awoke on the infamous Isle of Ashes.  As one survivor peered up from his bed of dirt, his eyes glimpsed the wreckage of The Iron Sound.  The last he remembered was leaving his home in Chedian, seeking the adventure and excitement of a raid on Mendossus.~~That adventure was not to be. ~~As the Isle of Ashes slipped by on the horizon, a sudden storm began raging.  The ship was tossed about like autumn leaves in a winter storm.  It found its final destination on deadly rocks outside the embrace of the island-ring. The survivors took stock of themselves, and found that of all the warriors that left Chedian, only four survived.  All that was left was to find a way off the Isle of Ashes."
1	I: The Six Clans of the Chedian	"While exploring the Isle of Ashes, they came across a shack in ill repair.  Inside was a ragged old woman claiming to be named Yrsa the Troll.  She claimed to be a prophetess, and told the adventurers of their prophecy.~ 'There is a man,' she began, 'who calls himself Tamur Leng.  He claims to be the 11th direct descendant of Jevar the Bastard.  He and his hordes from Beldonia are sweeping across Rysh conquering everything in their path.'   'What does Tamur Leng have to do with us?'  One of our heroes asked.~ She didn't answer right away.  She waited a moment to let them sweat.  When they had waited enough, she revealed to them their destiny.   'Your fate,' she paused again, and looked to each of the survivors in turn before continuing, 'is to unite the six clans of Chedian.  Unite them and lead them against Tamur Leng!  If you cannot stop him, we are all doomed.'~~ They had an opportunity to deny themselves this fate, but adventure was what they were seeking, and one can scarcely deny the adventure foretold in prophecies.  Should they succeed, men such as myself would chronicle their adventures for eternity. ~~After accepting their fate, Yrsa directed them to another man on the island by the name of Forad Darre.  Forad, it appears, had been stuck on the island for some time.  What he was doing there was for him to say. He chose to keep that knowledge to himself.  Forad explained that a group of bone thrashers had been terrorizing the one lane a boat could use to sail away from the Isle safely.~As brave and noble as they were, our heroes willingly undertook the task of reopening the sailing lane so that ships could once again come and go to the Isle of Ashes.  Forad, upon hearing the party's fate immediately pledged himself and his sword to our heroes' cause.  While on the first boat to sail out of the harbor in uncountable days, Forad took an oath, binding him to the group."
97	II: The Battlefield	"Too numerous to mention are the number of tasks and adventures the group went on in their attempts to unite the clans.  They made call upon each of the Jarls, or clan leaders, including my own benefactor Jarl Sven Forkbeard.  Their name and reputation notwithstanding, the Jarls would not extend the kind of trust required for a coalition to the group until they completed tasks to prove their worth, which our heroes undertook with enthusiasm and bravado.  Had they not been heroes before, they certainly were now.~~ Immediately after the formation of the coalition, the two neighboring clans of Sturmford and Drangheim went to war against each other.  Each claimed that the other had sabotaged them, and named specific events where the responsibility had actually lain in the hands of our heroes.  Using splendid political acumen, our heroes had Jarl Kira the Cold of Thronheim write a peace treaty that both clans could not refuse.  They returned to Thronheim just in time for the war council.  The peace would not last, however.  During the meeting, another fight broke out.  This time it was between Jarl Kira of Thronheim, and Jarl Markel 'the Great' of Guberland.  Kira did not tolerate Markel’s harsh words, and she wasted no time in giving him the gift of a sword in the gullet.~~The chaos was interrupted once again by Yrsa the Troll.  She had need for the party’s assistance to retrieve, of all things, a prize from the Thing that was in Thjorgard.  Our heroes left Forad behind to handle the choosing of a new Jarl for Guberland, as well as organizing the army that would be marching to meet Tamur Leng’s Hordes.  Our heroes agreed to meet up with the army on its way to the battle somewhere near the Framish town of Yorwick.   Alas we were betrayed.  Not just this chronicler, nor our heroes.  All of Chedian.  From rock washer to Jarl, from sailor to craftsman.  The oath Forad Darre had sworn when he joined our adventurers was a lie.  He was working for Tamur Leng the whole time.  Who knows what sort of secrets he passed on to his commander?  He led the Chedian army right into an ambush, and the hordes slew every last one of them, including the Jarls.  Before giving in to the calling of death, my benefactor, Jarl Sven of Thjorgard passed on to our heroes the news of the betrayal.~~It is up to them now, to find a way to Hallenhalt and retrieve the dead warriors as Sven demanded."
101	III: Hallenhalt	"They did it!  Exhibiting a display of resolve only found in legendary warriors, our heroes sacrificed their own lives to get into Arslegard.  When they reached the Great Gate, Hanndl the Gatekeeper refused to let them in without the document that formally declares a destiny: a Writ of Fate.~~To get a Writ of Fate, they had to travel through the treacherous Dark Passageway and speak to the Wyrdes, the three carvers of the Fate Stone.  The way was arduous, more so because once Hanndl set them on the path, the exit was closed to them.  Without egress, our heroes steeled their nerves and forged on.~~Ragged and weary, our legendary warriors succeeded in reaching the Temple of the Wyrdes.  Strangely enough, the only Wyrde present was Igrid, the Wyrde of the Present.  She told our heroes they would find their Writ of Fate only if they took a device known as the Capstone of Order to the Verhoffin Ruins.  This author still finds it strange that she would send mortals on an errand such as that.  They are heroes for Krohn’s sake, not couriers! ~~Without complaint, fetch the Capstone they did. When they placed it in the Verhoffin Ruins, out of nowhere the Writ of Fate materialized.  Returning to Arslegard, they showed it to Hanndl.  Begrudgingly, Hanndl allowed our legendary warriors entrance to Arslegard, the city where the gods reside.~~They were not permitted to enter Hallenhalt, the hall where those slain in battle wait to be called upon by Krohn to fight in the Great Reckoning.  Instead they went to the Hall of the Gods, the very hall where Krohn himself resides.  There they spoke to Skraelos, the god of the dead. Skraelos instructed them in the very thing that every priest tells their congregation.  If one wants to be freed from the bonds of the Afterworld, they must light the Six fires of Penance.  Skraelos declared that if our heroes wished the return of their army, they would have to do this for them."
106	IV: The Six Fires of Penace	"Guilt.~Our legendary warriors learned that they were not totally innocent of the betrayal of Forad Darre.  In fact, it was they who placed their trust in him, and encouraged the Jarls to do the same.  They faced their guilt here, and came from it stronger.~~Confession.~Our heroes willingly accepted the responsibility for the betrayal of Forad Darre.  They made an attempt to make apologies for it.  These apologies fell onto deaf ears, until our heroes chose willingly to suffer the same pain as those who were slain in the ambush.~~Suffering.~They were there in the battle where the army had been betrayed.  Though it was an immaterial representation of what happened, our warriors experienced it as though they were there.  They saw the skirmishes, and watched their friends and compatriots fall to the sword.~~Retribution.~As they admitted responsibility for the betrayal, our heroes were required to lay sacrifice to pay for their guilt.  No matter what they offered up, it was not enough.  They would not be absolved until they offered up their very lives.~~Absolution.~Finally our Legendary Heroes had paid enough.  They had been named responsible for the death of the thousands of soldiers, and had paid the price.  None could deny their place in history now.~~Rebirth.~All they had sacrificed was returned to them.  They had lit the Six Fires of Penance, and had lived to tell of it.  Skraelos allowed their army to leave Hallenhalt, and return to the realm of the living to take on the Hordes.~~Our Heroes met Sven in Arslegard, on their way back to the realm of the living.  He informed them that after the battle, Tamur Leng, Forad Darre, and their army had turned north and were assaulting Frosgard at that very moment.  They wasted no time in gathering the soldiers, and made immediately for Frosgard.~The Chedian army arrived first, and repaid the ambushers tenfold.  It was said that many of the hordes died from fright after seeing a soldier they had already killed standing before him again.  Our Legendary Heroes stood before Forad Darre, this time as enemies.  He put up a fight, but our  Heroes were victorious.  He was sent to The Afterworld to face what they had faced in his stead.  Then, finally, they came face to face with Tamur Leng himself.  Surprisingly, he did not draw his sword.  Instead he showed them exactly why he was carving a swath of death and destruction across the Continent of Rysh.~~He also had a Writ of Fate."
109	V: Njam the Meddler	" After seeing Tamur Leng's Writ of Fate, our Legendary Heroes, along with Tamur Leng were summoned to stand before Krohn.  Krohn himself!  The king of the gods!  When they arrived, Krohn asked them why they were insisting on fighting.  Our Heroes showed Krohn their Writ of Fate, while Tamur Leng showed Krohn his.  Krohn's face immediately soured and he cursed the name of Njam the Meddler, who he blamed for this conflict.  The Meddler always had an interest in sowing chaos in the realm of the living.~~Krohn, it seemed, had enough of Njam's meddling.  As it turned out, both Yrsa the Troll and the Igrid that our Legendary Heroes met in the Dark Passageway were merely Njam in disguise.  Krohn charged Tamur Leng to accompany our Legendary Heroes to imprison Njam the Meddler in the Tomb of a Thousand Terrors.  Imprison Njam they did.  Krohn told them to visit the place in Arlsegard that Njam called home.   While they were there, who arrived but Njam himself!  They fled to the Tomb of a Thousand Terrors with Njam in pursuit.  They found the heart of the tomb, and before they could get their bearings, Njam was upon them.  There was a great struggle, but our Legendary Heroes managed to lure Njam into a trap, and there he was imprisoned.~~They had succeeded.  They had imprisoned a god."
109	Epilogue: The Writ of Fate	"When they returned to the Hall of the Gods, Krohn was there, to welcome our Legendary Heroes.  It was there Hanndl gave them their true Writ of Fate.  Capturing Njam had been their destiny all along.  When they returned to me to review the chronicle, they read aloud to me their Writ:~~'Be it known that the bearer of this Writ has seen the Wyrdes, and been judged by them to be worthy of its honor. The bearers have been fated by the Wyrdes to imprison the god Njam, also known as The Meddler in the Tomb of a Thousand Terrors.  It is their fate alone, and they shall have the honor of doing it.'~~It was my honor to write their tale.  It is my sincere hope that you have enjoyed this it, dear reader.  Let not this tale be lost to history, as so much was lost in the Great Cataclysm.  I encourage you to take this tale and tell it again, in your own words, how our Legendary Heroes imprisoned Njam himself.~~Jordan A’Dorad~January Seventh, 535."
