The Contest

The game begins on Emerald Isle. You party is taking part in a scavanger hunt, with the winner taking posession of Harmondale Castle.
Before fighting enemies on the island, click on the Day of the Gods Pedastal on a hill north of the town. The Day of the Gods spell will make your party quite powerful and you shouldn't have any problem dealing with the enemies on the island.
You need to find six items to win the scavanger hunt. Show them to Thomas the judge in Markham's headquarters on the easten edge of the town and he will mark them off your list.
The red potion is an easy item to find. Buy one from a shop in town or make it yourself by using some Windowsweep Berries. In your inventory, left click on the berries to pick them up and then right click on an empty potion bottle to make a red potion.
You can find a Seashell in one of the crates in the swampy area on the northwest corner of the island. You can also buy one for 100 gold from Sally who is standing outside of the Dragon Cave north of the town.
Ailyssa the Bard will sell you her Lute for 500 gold.
Enter the cave that leads to the Temple of the Moon on the hill north of the town and south of the dragon cave. You will find a Wealthy Hat in a chest in the northwest corner of the temple.
Speak to Sal Sharktooth nearby. He will demand you give him the Wealthy Hat. Refuse to give it to him and he will attack you. Take the Longbow from his body. You can also find a Longbow in the Dragon Cave.
Enter the library in the Temple of the Moon. There is a secret door in the northeast corner. Behind it you will find a Floor Tile.
Once Thomas the judge has marked off all the items, speak to Lord Markham and he will award you with the deed to the castle.
Enter the ship off of the docks at the south end of town and click on the cabin. You will then sail to your new lands.
Castle Harmondale

Click on the entrance to Casle Harmondale and the butler will greet you. He will ask you to clear out the goblins inside the castle.
Enter the castle and defeat all the goblins. You can't enter the throne room yet.
Enter the On The House taven at the east end of the town. Speak to the butler and he will congratulate you on clearing the goblins out of the castle. He will suggest you speak to the dwarves in Stone City and ask for their help in repairing the castle.
The Dwarves

Head south to the Barrow Downs and enter Stone City near the center of the area.
Enter the throne room and speak to Hothfarr IX, the Dwarven King. He will agree to help you if you save some dwarves in the Red Dwarf Mines who were turned to stone when Medusas overran the mines. He will give you an Elixer to cure them.
Travel west to the Bracada Desert and enter the Red Dwarf Mines in the northeast corner of the area.
Throughout the top level of the mine you will find several stone statues. Click on them to restore them to normal and they will join you. Save all seven dwarves and then leave the mines.
Return to the Dwarven King in Stone City with all the rescued dwarves in tow and he will agree to repair Harmondale Castle. Furthermore, he will recognize you as the true lords of Harmondale and will send out emissaries to the other courts.
The War

Return to Harmondale and you will find that the castle has been cleaned up and repaired.
Enter the throne room and you will find two emmisaries. Ellen Rockway will invite you to Erathia to meet with Queen Catherine as soon as possible. Likewise, Alain Hani will invite you to Pierpont in the Tularean Forest to meet with his king.

Go to Steadwick in Erathia and meet with Queen Catherine. She will ask you to rescue Loren Steel who is being held prisoner by the elves in the Tularean Caves.
There are three different ways to proceed from here:
First, you can go to the Tularean Caves in the Tularean Forest and rescue Loren Steel. In a chest you will find some directions to the prison cell. You can also look at my map to find the way through. Return to Queen Catherine in Castle Gryphonheart with Laren Steel and she will reward you with 5000 gold.
Second, you can speak to the Elven King in Navan Castle in the Tularean Forest and tell him what Catherine asked you to do. He will send a fake Laren Steel along with you. Return to Queen Catherine in Gryphonheart Castle and she will believe the fake Laren Steel is the real one. Return to the Elven King for a 5000 gold reward.
Third, you can just ignore the quest.

Meet the Elven King in Navan Castle in the Tularean Forest. He will ask you to steel the Riverstride Plans from Fort Riverstride.
Again, there are three ways you can handle this:
First, you can enter Fort Riverstride in Erathia and steal the Riverstride Plans as the king asked. The plans are hidden in a vault on the lower level. To get to the lower level, there is a secret door on the upper level or you can enter the fort from a secret entrance under the bridge. Return to the Elven King with the plans for a 5000 gold reward.
Second, you can go to Castle Gryphonheart in Erathia and tell Queen Catherine about the Elven King's plans. She will give you some fake plans. Give them to the Elven King and he will be fooled. Return to Queen Catherine in Erathia for a 5000 gold reward.
Third, you can just ignore the quest.
The Choice

After a year has passed in the game, the next time you return to Harmondale, you will learn that Judge Grey has died. The humans and elves have called a truce and you must choose a new Arbiter.
Enter the throne room in Harmondale Castle and you will find two new ambassadors, one from the Wizards in the Bracada Desert and the other from the necromancers from the Deyja Moors. Each will encourage you to choose their judge to replace Judge Grey.
Here is where the game splits. If you want to follow the Path of Light, speak to Judge Fairweather in the Tavern in the northwest part of the Bracada Desert. If you want to follow the Path of Dark, speak to Lord Devon Sleen in the Tavern in the Deyja Moors.
Return to Harmondale with your selected judge and enter Judge Grey's old house on the eastern edge of the area. What happens between the humans and elves depends on which judge you choose.

The Path of Light
Celeste

If you choose Judge Fairweather from the Bracada Desert, he will find a way to resolve the dispute between the humans and elves. You will be asked to speak with Gavin Magnus in Celeste.
Go to the Bracada Desert and step on the teleporter near the center of the area to go to Celeste.
Enter Castle Lambent and speak to Gavin Magnus. He will ask that you first complete the Walls of Mist.
Enter the Walls of Mist near the south end of Celeste. Since you are not allowed to kill any of the enemies inside, it would be much easier for you to cast invisibility before you enter so that you can avoid the enemies all together.
In the main room there are three arches in the center and three pillars at the back. Pass through each of the arches to find a key for each of the pillars.
In the area through the west arch, there are three buttons and a lever on both the west and east sides of the area. Press both of the center buttons and then pull one of the levers to reveal the chest holding the West Pillar Key.
In the area through the central arch, step up to the wall in the southwest corner of the room and the floor will rise to bring to the room where the Central Pillar Key can be found. Step on the same floor tile again to descend.
In the area through the east arch, head straight north and walk through the curtain. Press the button to use the lift. Press the button on each of the four pools to drain the water from the pool at the back of the room and jump into the hole there to reach the room with the East Pillar Key.
Return to the main room and click on all three pillars to open the path to the exit.
Speak to Gavin Magnus again and he will congratulate you on your success. He will also ask you to speak to his advisors.
Go to the east end of Celeste and speak to all four advisors. Three of them will have quests for you.
Vampires

Crag Hack, one of the advisors, will ask you to investigate the mysterious disappearances in Tatalia. He suspects vampires.
Travel to Tatalia and enter the Wine Cellar in the center of the main town.
Click on the wine rack in the northwest corner of the first room to reveal a passage deeper into the vampires' lair.
Defeat the Elder Vampire in the room to the north. Return to Crag Hack in Celeste for a large reward.
The Temples of Light and Dark

Resurecta, another advisor of Celeste, will ask you to bring both Altar pieces of light and dark to her so she can recombine them.
The altar piece in the Temple of the Dark is by far the more difficult of the two to get. Enter The Pit from the Hall of the Pit in the Deyja Moors.
Go through the cavern in the southeast corner of the first area to move to the second area. Reenter the cavern again to move to the third area. Follow the tunnel and go north to reach the Temple of the Dark.
Go to the back of the altar straight ahead and click on a button on its base. The altar will slide forward allowing you to pick up the Altar Piece from the chest underneith.
Return to Celeste and enter the Temple of the Light in the northwest corner. Since you are following the Path of Light, the creatures in this temple will not harm you.
Click on the wall in the northeast corner of the first room to open a secret door. Continue through the temple to the northern end where you will find a star shaped altar in the middle of the room.
Climb up to the balcony of this room and at the west, north, and east sides you will find three tiles on each side representing the sun, moon, and stars. Click on the sun tile on the west side, the moon tile on the north side, and the stars tile on the east side. Click on the altar in the center of the room to reveal a secret chamber in the north wall.
Take the Altar Piece from the chest and return with both Altar Pieces to Resurecta in the northeast corner of Celeste.
Steal the Soul Jars

Sir Caneghem, a third advisor of Celeste, will ask you to raid Castle Gloaming and take their Soul Jars.
Enter The Pit from the Hall of the Pit in the Deyja Moors.
Enter the cavern in the southeast corner of the first area to arrive at the second area. Turn back and reenter the cavern to go to the third area, and then again to reach the fourth and final area of The Pit where you will find Castle Gloaming.
Take the north passage in the first large room to reach the second large room. Use the stairs on either side of the room to go up to the balcony.
Enter the room on the west side of the room. At the bottom of the stairs you will find a chest that contains the Case of Soul Jars.
Return to Sir Caneghem in Celeste with the Soul Jars and he will take them off your hand.
Assassination

After you have completed the quest of the three other advisors, speak to the forth Advisor, Robert the Wise. He will ask you to take the Control Cube from Tolberti, his conterpart for the Necromancers.
Return to The Pit. Tolberti makes his home in one of the hostels on the west side of the city.
Enter Tolberti's House and attack him. He is a very difficult enemy and will take a long time to defeat. To beat him, I continually saved my game every time I scored a hit, and reloaded when he healed himself or eradicated one of my party members.
Return to Robert the Wise with the Control Cube. He will teach every member of your party the Blaster skill.
The Devils

Speak to Resurecta in Castle Lambent and she will ask you to go to the Land of the Giants and defeat Xenofex in the devil colony there.
To get to the Land of the Giants, enter Stone City in the Barrow Downs. From there, pass through the Nighon Tunnels to Thunderfist Mountain.
On the north side of Thunderfist Mountain, you will find the entrance to the Tunnels to Eofol which will take you to the Land of the Giants.
Enter Colony Zod on the west side of the area.
Coninue through the area to the northwest corner and take the lift up to the next level.
Push all four buttons in the next room and you will be able to continue to the prison cells to the west.
Enter the southeast cell and step on the tile next to the ledge and you will be lifted up to the ledge. Click on the hanging cage to free Roland Ironfist. He will give you the Colony Zod Key.
Return to the main hallway and you will find that a new corridor has opened up.
At the end of the corridor, take the lift on the north end of the room to go up to the next level.
Click on the button in the east room and use the Telekenesis spell to push the button in the west room. This will unlock the door on the south end of the room.
Use the lift to go up to the highest level and click on the door to open it with the Colony Zod Key. In the next room you will find Xenofex.
After you have killed Xenofex, return to Resurecta in Castle Lambent in Celeste and she will tell you who she and the other advisors really are and what their goal is.
The Lincoln

Speak to Resurecta again and she will ask you to enter her ship, the Lincoln, and retrieve the Oscillation Overthruster.
Take the Wetsuits from the chests outside of the throne room and travel to Avlee.
Take off all your equipment and then put on the wetsuits. If one of your characters refuses to wear the wetsuit, then you must still have something equiped. The only things you can use while wearing the wetsuits are Blasters.
Jump into the water and continue to the west side of the area. Although you are actually walking under the water, it will appear like you are walking on top of it. Go to the west end of the area to travel to the Shoals.
Although the sharks in the Shoals aren't that difficult, you aren't wearing any equipment and cannot cast spells, so I suggest you avoid the enemies and keep going northeast to the Lincoln.
As soon as you enter the Lincoln, take off the wetsuits and put all your old equipment back on.
The ship isn't powered up yet, so the only door that will open is the one in the southeast corner of the hanger. Keep going east and at the end of the hallway, step on the lift to go up to the main power room.
Click on the monitor to restore power to the ship. Now all the doors will open for you and various control panels will also work.
At the south end of the main hold, you will find doors that lead to the bridge. Click on the small panel beside the doors to open them.
Click on the large object in the center of the bridge to pick up the Oscillation Overthruster.
Return to Resurecta in Celeste with the Oscillation Overthruster and she will be able to open the gateway that leads to other worlds.
